# Synthesizer API

Synthesizers are container images that implement the [KRM Functions API](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/cmd/config/docs/api-conventions/functions-spec.md).

## Merge Semantics / Drift Detection

Eno's reconciler keeps objects in sync with the state defined by the synthesizer.
This is true when the resource itself changes (drift) or the expected state produced by the synthesizer changes.

Eno uses strategic three-way merge when possible, falling back to non-strategic three-way merge otherwise.
All properties specified in Eno's expected state will always converge i.e. Eno will continue to patch the resource until it matches the expected state.
However, other clients are free to set properties not defined by synthesizers without being "stomped on" by Eno.

## Reconciliation Interval

By default, configuration drift will only be corrected when the expected state changes or the Eno reconciler process restarts.
In most cases, resources produced by synthesizers should include an annotation to specify an interval at which drift can be corrected.

```yaml
annotations:
  eno.azure.io/reconcile-interval: "15m" # supports any value parsable by Go's `time.ParseDuration`
```

## Disable Updates

In cases where resources are expected to be modified by other clients, patches can be disabled by setting this annotation on resources generated by synthesizers:

```yaml
annotations:
  eno.azure.io/disable-updates: "true"
```

## Deletion

Eno will delete all resources associated with a composition when it's deleted.
In unusual cases where the resources should be preserved, a special annotation can be set on the composition before it's deleted:

```yaml
annotations:
  eno.azure.io/deletion-strategy: orphan
```

## Ignore side effects

Consider a "side effect" any event that's not a change to the composition spec. A new synthesizer version or a change to an input are examples of this.
Setting this annotation on a composition (or through a Symphony's variation) will prevent it from being resynthesized on side effects.

```yaml
annotations:
  eno.azure.io/ignore-side-effects: "true"
```

## Patch Unmanaged Resources

Synthesizers can generate special "pseudo resources" to modify objects not managed by Eno.

Standard jsonpatch operations are supported.

```yaml
apiVersion: eno.azure.io/v1
kind: Patch
metadata:
  name: resource-to-be-patched
  namespace: default
patch:
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: ConfigMap
  ops:
    - { "op": "add", "path": "/data/hello", "value": "world" }
```

> Note: the resource will not be created if it doesn't already exist. Similarly, removing the patch pseudo-resource will not cause Eno to delete the resource.

Setting `metadata.deletionTimestamp` to any value will cause the resource to be deleted if it exists.

```yaml
apiVersion: eno.azure.io/v1
kind: Patch
metadata:
  name: resource-to-be-deleted
  namespace: default
patch:
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: ConfigMap
  ops:
    - { "op": "add", "path": "/metadata/deletionTimestamp", "value": "anything" }
```


## Logging

The synthesizer process's `stderr` is piped to the synthesizer container it's running in so any typical log forwarding infra can be used.

## Error Handling

The KRM API supports "results", which are a kind of metadata related to the execution process that would not otherwise be reflected in the generated resources.
Each result has a severity of info, warning, or error.
Eno passes through the results to the composition's status opaquely, and uses the first error result for kubectl output.

```yaml
apiVersion: eno.azure.io/v1
kind: Synthesizer
metadata:
  name: error-example
spec:
  image: docker.io/ubuntu:latest
  command:
  - /bin/bash
  - -c
  - |
    echo '
      {
        "apiVersion":"config.kubernetes.io/v1",
        "kind":"ResourceList",
        "results": [{
          "severity": "error",
          "message": "The system is down, the system is down"
        }]
      }'
```

Here's the result:

```bash
$ kubectl get compositions
NAME      SYNTHESIZER     AGE   STATUS     ERROR
example   error-example   10s   NotReady   The system is down, the system is down
```
